1) What is stack and heap? What is storage classes and linkage?
Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic memory allocation, both stored in the computer's RAM.
Element of the heap have no dependencies with each other and can always be accessed randomly at any time.

Linkage describes how names can or can not refer to the same entity throughout the whole program or one single translation unit.

2) How source code in C files manipulated and turned into binary file?

Preprocessing    -- All C code is gathered together.
Compilation      -- C source code is translated into assembly code.
Assembly         -- Assembly code is translated into machine code.
Linking          -- Object Files are combined.

3) What is bootloader in Embedded Systems?
Boot loader is to load an operating system from a storage device, set up a minimal environment in which the OS can run.

4) What is the principle of RTOS?
 Task management and scheduling;
 (deferred) interrupt servicing;
 Inter-process communication and synchronization;
 Memory management.
 
5) How an RTOS works?
The RTOS is an operating system, it is a brain of the real-time system and its response to inputs immediately.
In the RTOS, the task will be completed by the specified time and its responses in a predictable way to unpredictable events.

6) What RTOSes you know?
Wind River (VxWorks), ARM(Keil RTX)

7) What is debugging and what you can achieve with it?
Debugging means to run your code step by step in a debugging tool like Visual Studio,
to find the exact point where you made a programming mistake.

8) What practices can be used to test source code?
Unit Testing, integration Testing, Code Review ...

9) What is the volatile keyword and when it is used?
prevent the compiler from applying any optimizations on objects that can change in ways that cannot be
determined by the compiler.

10) What is the static keyword and when it is used?
In the C programming language, static is used with global variables and functions to set their scope to the containing file.
In local variables, static is used to store the variable in the statically allocated memory instead of the automatically
allocated memory.

11) What is inline means and when it is used?
Whose definitions are small and be substituted at the place where its function call is happened.


12) What is pointer in C?
A pointer is a variable whose value is the address of another variable

13) Explain Function Pointers.
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
void foo(int a) {
    printf(" %d ", a);
}
typedef void (*ptrFoo)(int);
int main() {
    // Write C code here
    ptrFoo pF = foo;
    pF(5);
    return 0;
}

14) What is difference between a macro and a function?
Macros are pre-processed which means that all the macros would be processed before your program compiles.
However, functions are not preprocessed but compiled.

15) What does stack mean and gow it is used?
A stack is a linear data structure that serves as a collection of elements, with three main operations.
Push operation, which adds an element to the stack.

16) What is static and dynamic memory allocation?
Static Memory Allocation: Static Memory is allocated for declared variables by the compiler.
The memory is allocated during compile time. Dynamic Memory Allocation: Memory allocation done at the time of
execution(run time) is known as dynamic memory allocation.

17) What is memory leak?
It is about dynamic memory allocation. When the memory block is forgatton to be freed after allocation, leakage happens.

18) What does structure padding mean how to optimize memory usage?
Adds the one or more empty bytes between the memory addresses to align the data in memory.

19) What is translation unit?
A translation unit is the output of the C preprocessor – a source file after it has been preprocessed.

20) Provide pointer to array declaration.
#include<stdio.h>

void main()
{
   int a[3] = {1, 2, 3};
   int *p = a;    
   for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
   {
      printf("%d", *p);
      p++;
   }
  return 0;
}

21) What is NULL pointer and what happens when dereferencing such pointer?
A Null Pointer is a pointer that does not point to any memory location.
In C, dereferencing a null pointer is undefined behavior.

22) What is an ABI?
Application Binary Interface
An ABI defines how data structures or computational routines are accessed in machine code, which is a low-level, hardware-dependent format.

23) What is a nested interrupt in ARM?
In a nested interrupt system, an interrupt is allowed to anytime and anywhere even an ISR is being executed.
But, only the highest priority ISR will be executed immediately.

24) How many different stack pointers could you list which are present on ARM architecture?
Physically there are two stack pointers in the Cortex-M processors, but only one of them is used at a time,
depending on the current value of the CONTROL register and the state of the processor.

25) What instruction sets ARM architecture implements?
The Arm architecture supports three instruction sets: A64, A32 and T32.

26) What is state machine concept?
A state machine is a concept used in designing computer programs or digital logic.
A state machine is any device storing the status of something at a given time.
The status changes based on inputs, providing the resulting output for the implemented changes.

State machine.



